# Namespace

---

## Beginner

The `namespace` keyword allows you to define logical areas that contain related objects.

---

## Intermediate

A `namespace` may contain any of the following:

- classes
- interfaces
- structs
- enums
- delegates
- namespaces

Multiple namespaces may exist within a single file, unless you declare a _file scoped namespace_.

Only one file scoped namespace may exist within a single source code file.

Any object not declare inside a named namespace is considered to be part of the global namespace. The global namespace is created automatically by the compiler. You can access an object in the global namespace using a namespace alias qualifier.

---

## Advanced

Starting with .NET 6 top-level statements are generated by the compiler, which include your namespace.

Top-level statements reduce the amount of code required for the creation of the application entry-point.

---

## Examples

### In Code

*MyClass.cs*
```
// A simple namespace inside MyClass.cs
namespace AnExampleNamespace {
  public class MyClass {

  }
}

// Another namespace inside the same MyClass.cs file
namespace Another.Example{
  namespace With.Nesting {
    public class MyOtherClass {

    }
  }
}
```

*MyFileScopedNamespaceExample.cs*
```
// Notice the semi-colon instead of enclosing curly-braces
namespace MyFileScopedNamespace;

public class MyFirstClass {

}


public class MySecondClass {

}

```

The classic Hello World entry-point example *Program.cs*
```
using System;

namespace MyExampleApp
{
  public class Program
  {
    public static void Main(string[] args)
    {
      Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");
    }
  }
}
```

Hello World with top-level statements *Program.cs*
> The using, namespace, and class are now generated by the compiler

```
Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");
```

### In Conversation

> Imagine standing in a workshop and all of your tools are laying around.

>You want to build a bird house, but you are wasting a lot of time wandering around the workshop trying to find the right tool for each step.

>You put all the tools in front of you in a big pile and although it helps a little bit, you still find yourself searching through the pile.

> You start to organize the tools into different piles of similar tools. One pile for the saws, another pile for the different hammers, and yet one more pile for all the nails and screws.

> Breaking the piles down into smaller piles of related tools definitely starts to speed things up for a few different reasons. You are only using the tools you need for the task at hand. The related tools are being kept together, making it easier to find the right pile. Also, over time as you replace or maintain your tools, the smaller piles are easier to manage.

> We put those piles of tools into toolboxes and label them.

> The toolboxes are namespaces and the tools inside are the related software objects.

---

## Resources for More Info

### Links

<div><a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/fundamentals/types/namespaces" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Namespaces</a></div>
